info.md, before:

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

_Component to integrate with [homee][homee]._

| :warning: This is a custom integration that is early in development and has so far only been tested in very specific environments and with a limited amount and variety of devices. Please backup your homee and Home Assistant instances before proceeding. |
| --- |

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`binary_sensor` | Integrate homee devices that provide binary state information like `on`/`off` or `open`/`close`.
`climate` | Integrate homee devices that provide temperature and can set a target temperature.
`light` | Integrate lights from homee.

![homee][homee_logo]

## Configuration

The integration will attempt to discover homee cubes in your network. Discovery is experimental and has not been properly tested yet. I recommend to add your homee cube(s) manually:

1. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "homee"
2. Select the "homee" integration from the list. If it does not show up you should check if it is installed correctly. Go to "Configuration" -> "Logs" and make sure there are no errors. Also make sure to restart home assistant after installation.
3. In the dialog enter the host (ip address of the homee cube) as well as the username and password of a homee account that can access your cube.
4. Hit submit. All supported devices will be automatically added to home assistant.

## Additional configuration

TODO: Customize device classes


[homee]: https://hom.ee
[buymecoffee]: https://ko-fi.com/freshlybrewed
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/commits/master
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[homee_logo]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/brands/master/custom_integrations/homee/logo.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-FreshlyBrewedCode-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/releases

Commit message:

docs: add switch to platform table

info.md, after:

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

_Component to integrate with [homee][homee]._

| :warning: This is a custom integration that is early in development and has so far only been tested in very specific environments and with a limited amount and variety of devices. Please backup your homee and Home Assistant instances before proceeding. |
| --- |

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`binary_sensor` | Integrate homee devices that provide binary state information like `on`/`off` or `open`/`close`.
`climate` | Integrate homee devices that provide temperature and can set a target temperature.
`light` | Integrate lights from homee.
`switch` | Integrate homee devices that can be turned `on`/`off` and can optionally provide information about the current power consumption.

![homee][homee_logo]

## Configuration

The integration will attempt to discover homee cubes in your network. Discovery is experimental and has not been properly tested yet. I recommend to add your homee cube(s) manually:

1. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "homee"
2. Select the "homee" integration from the list. If it does not show up you should check if it is installed correctly. Go to "Configuration" -> "Logs" and make sure there are no errors. Also make sure to restart home assistant after installation.
3. In the dialog enter the host (ip address of the homee cube) as well as the username and password of a homee account that can access your cube.
4. Hit submit. All supported devices will be automatically added to home assistant.

## Additional configuration

TODO: Customize device classes


[homee]: https://hom.ee
[buymecoffee]: https://ko-fi.com/freshlybrewed
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/commits/master
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[homee_logo]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/brands/master/custom_integrations/homee/logo.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-FreshlyBrewedCode-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/releases
