README.md, before:

# Home Assistant homee integration

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

_Component to integrate with [homee][homee]._

| :warning: This is a custom integration that is early in development and has so far only been tested in very specific environments and with a limited amount and variety of devices. Please backup your homee and Home Assistant instances before proceeding. |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

| Platform        | Description                                                                                                                       |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `binary_sensor` | Integrate homee devices that provide binary state information like `on`/`off` or `open`/`close`.                                  |
| `sensor`        | Integrate homee devices that provide readings - currently power and energy are supported                                          |
| `cover`         | Integrate homee devices that provide motor and position functions such as blinds and shutter actuators                            |
| `climate`       | Integrate homee devices that provide temperature and can set a target temperature.                                                |
| `light`         | Integrate lights from homee.                                                                                                      |
| `switch`        | Integrate homee devices that can be turned `on`/`off` and can optionally provide information about the current power consumption. |

![homee][homee_logo]

## Installation

> :warning: **Backup homee and Home Assistant!**

### HACS (recommended)

1. Make sure the [HACS integration](https://hacs.xyz/) is properly installed for your instance of home assistant.
2. In the HACS UI go to "Integrations", click on three small dots in the top right and select "Custom repositories".
3. Paste `https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee` into the field that says "Add custom repository URL", select "Integration" from "Category" dropdown and click "Add".
4. You should now see a card with the homee integration in the HACS -> "Integrations" section. Click "Install".
5. Select the latest version from the dropdown and click "Install".
6. Restart Home Assistant.

### Manual installation

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `homee`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/homee/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
6. Restart Home Assistant.

## Configuration
> :information_source: Because of a bug (#4) you should only configure **one** homee in Home Assistant.

The integration will attempt to discover homee cubes in your network. Discovered cubes should show up in the "Configuration" -> "Integrations" section along with the associated homee id and host ip address.

1. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations", click "Configure" on a discovered homee or click "+", search for "homee", and select the "homee" integration from the list.
2. In the dialog enter the username and password of a homee account that can access your cube, as well as the host (ip address of the homee cube) if you are not configuring a discovered cube. Click submit.
3. If the connection was successful you will see the "Initial Configuration" section. These options can also be changed later from by clicking on the "Options" button on the homee integration. For more details on the available options check the [Options section](#Options).
4. Click submit. Your devices will be automatically added to Home Assistant.

## Options

The following table shows the available options that can be configured in the "Initial Configuration" step or using the "Options" button on an existing configuration. Please note that you have to restart Home Assistant after changing the options using the "Options" button.

| Option                                                                       | Default    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `The groups that should be imported`                                         | all groups | The integration will only import devices that are in any of the selected groups. Use this option to limit the devices that you want to import.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `Groups that contain window sensors`                                         | empty      | Any `binary_sensor` that is in any of the selected groups will use the `window` device class. You should select a homee group that contains all of your window sensors.                                                                                                                                    |
| `Groups that contain door sensors`                                           | empty      | Any `binary_sensor` that is in any of the selected groups will use the `door` device class. You should select a homee group that contains all of your door sensors.                                                                                                                                        |
| `Add (debug) information about the homee node and attributes to each entity` | `False`    | Enabling this option will add the `homee_data` attribute to every entity created by this integration. The attribute contains information about the homee node (name, id, profile) and the attributes (id, type). This option can be useful for debugging or advanced automations when used with templates. |


## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Home Assistant encourages developers of integrations to use a separate python package that handles the communication between Home Assistant and the different devices (i.e. python api/backend). This integration uses [pymee](https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/pymee) to connect and communicate with the homee websocket api. For some features it may be necessary to make changes to pymee first.

***

[homee]: https://hom.ee
[buymecoffee]: https://ko-fi.com/freshlybrewed
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/commits/master
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[homee_logo]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/brands/master/custom_integrations/homee/logo.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-FreshlyBrewedCode-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/releases

Commit message:

feat: add Logging of Nodes Attributes (#27)
* Add logging of raw attributes from found nodes

This shows us the attributes of homee nodes, so we can find out the capabilities of unknown devices.

* Add procedure for not working Homee nodes

* Escape [ so [homee] is not handled as link

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant homee integration

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]
[![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffeebadge]][buymecoffee]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

_Component to integrate with [homee][homee]._

| :warning: This is a custom integration that is early in development and has so far only been tested in very specific environments and with a limited amount and variety of devices. Please backup your homee and Home Assistant instances before proceeding. |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

| Platform        | Description                                                                                                                       |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `binary_sensor` | Integrate homee devices that provide binary state information like `on`/`off` or `open`/`close`.                                  |
| `sensor`        | Integrate homee devices that provide readings - currently power and energy are supported                                          |
| `cover`         | Integrate homee devices that provide motor and position functions such as blinds and shutter actuators                            |
| `climate`       | Integrate homee devices that provide temperature and can set a target temperature.                                                |
| `light`         | Integrate lights from homee.                                                                                                      |
| `switch`        | Integrate homee devices that can be turned `on`/`off` and can optionally provide information about the current power consumption. |

![homee][homee_logo]

## Installation

> :warning: **Backup homee and Home Assistant!**

### HACS (recommended)

1. Make sure the [HACS integration](https://hacs.xyz/) is properly installed for your instance of home assistant.
2. In the HACS UI go to "Integrations", click on three small dots in the top right and select "Custom repositories".
3. Paste `https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee` into the field that says "Add custom repository URL", select "Integration" from "Category" dropdown and click "Add".
4. You should now see a card with the homee integration in the HACS -> "Integrations" section. Click "Install".
5. Select the latest version from the dropdown and click "Install".
6. Restart Home Assistant.

### Manual installation

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `homee`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/homee/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
6. Restart Home Assistant.

## Configuration
> :information_source: Because of a bug (#4) you should only configure **one** homee in Home Assistant.

The integration will attempt to discover homee cubes in your network. Discovered cubes should show up in the "Configuration" -> "Integrations" section along with the associated homee id and host ip address.

1. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations", click "Configure" on a discovered homee or click "+", search for "homee", and select the "homee" integration from the list.
2. In the dialog enter the username and password of a homee account that can access your cube, as well as the host (ip address of the homee cube) if you are not configuring a discovered cube. Click submit.
3. If the connection was successful you will see the "Initial Configuration" section. These options can also be changed later from by clicking on the "Options" button on the homee integration. For more details on the available options check the [Options section](#Options).
4. Click submit. Your devices will be automatically added to Home Assistant.

## Options

The following table shows the available options that can be configured in the "Initial Configuration" step or using the "Options" button on an existing configuration. Please note that you have to restart Home Assistant after changing the options using the "Options" button.

| Option                                                                       | Default    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `The groups that should be imported`                                         | all groups | The integration will only import devices that are in any of the selected groups. Use this option to limit the devices that you want to import.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `Groups that contain window sensors`                                         | empty      | Any `binary_sensor` that is in any of the selected groups will use the `window` device class. You should select a homee group that contains all of your window sensors.                                                                                                                                    |
| `Groups that contain door sensors`                                           | empty      | Any `binary_sensor` that is in any of the selected groups will use the `door` device class. You should select a homee group that contains all of your door sensors.                                                                                                                                        |
| `Add (debug) information about the homee node and attributes to each entity` | `False`    | Enabling this option will add the `homee_data` attribute to every entity created by this integration. The attribute contains information about the homee node (name, id, profile) and the attributes (id, type). This option can be useful for debugging or advanced automations when used with templates. |

## Homee device not correctly working?
As of now this integration has support for very few devices. If you have devices, that are not discovered or not working correctly, open an issue and do the following to provide a log:

1. Add following lines to configuration.yaml to enable info logging for hacs-homee:
```
logger:
  default: warn
  logs:
    custom_components.homee: info
```
2. Restart Home Assistant.
3. Go to "Settings->System->Logs" and show complete logs.
4. Look for lines containing "INFO (MainThread) \[homee]" and copy them
5. Open an issue describing the device and paste the logs in the corresponding section

## Contributions are welcome!

If you want to contribute to this please read the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Home Assistant encourages developers of integrations to use a separate python package that handles the communication between Home Assistant and the different devices (i.e. python api/backend). This integration uses [pymee](https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/pymee) to connect and communicate with the homee websocket api. For some features it may be necessary to make changes to pymee first.

***

[homee]: https://hom.ee
[buymecoffee]: https://ko-fi.com/freshlybrewed
[buymecoffeebadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/commits/master
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[homee_logo]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/brands/master/custom_integrations/homee/logo.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-FreshlyBrewedCode-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/FreshlyBrewedCode/hacs-homee/releases
